Project Diary
Week 1 – Completed project proposal
Week 2 – Completed revised project proposal
Week 3 – Researched and retrieved available. Realized that viable data on the national level covering the period between 1960 and 2023 has been extremely difficult to source for public health outbreak tracking, violent and property crimes, and sentiment analysis on social media (for the past decade). I think I need to refocus my efforts from national to just a single state. I think if my efforts were concentrated on just my home state of Georgia, I would be more successful in obtaining data, especially where the crime data is concerned.
Week 4 – Scaled the scope of project down from all 50 states in the United States to Georgia. Pulled updated/additional datasets
Week 5 – Reviewed and eliminated several datasets—settled on and finalized 15 files. Reduced durations of remaining project tasks to better ensure that the final deliverables will be met on time. Slack was built into the original project plan to allow for this possibility.
Week 6 – Spent the week spinning my wheels on the data and how best to represent it for an association rule learning method. Last week I adjusted the expected durations of several tasks to better meet the final deliverable deadline. This week I realized that I had not configured my project plan correctly in my application and as a result my task dates were drifting. I noticed the shifting dates but did not pay too much attention to them. I am a solid 1-1/2 weeks behind where I should be and I am in a position where I now need to complete my exploration and understanding of the data, model the data, and then interpret the data by Friday, March 1. If I can successfully accomplish this then I will be back on track and on schedule. I very much like the idea of my project, but I am not…now…especially thrilled about it.
Week 7 – Reversed course and re-expanded effort from being focused on Georgia to being national as the data does not currently exist to focus solely on an individual state like Georgia. Pulled new/additional data, cleansed, and loaded it. I’m running out of time and racing the clock to complete the remaining tasks ahead of the draft presentation due date.
Week 8 – I think I’m going to make it. I definitely spent way too much time analyzing and fretting over my data. By the end I think I realized a number of things I’d do differently and I certainly think I’ll be in good position to know what not to do if I had this to do all over again.
